thank you and good morning it's good to
see that there are so many people coming
to this session because automated
testing has been one of my most most
considered ideas to promote from echo
s10 so of course you know why are we
here because there's a great need for
testing automation our applications have
become more complex our our needs for
for debugging we want to reduce our our
engineering support requirements and
what we want to show you today is two
things one a solution from Apple that's
Apple script based functional testing
based upon our section 508 accessibility
API and to a solution is being provided
for us from the redstone redstone
software folks called eggplant which was
user centric testing from a scripted
scripted base and without further ado
let me introduce John Comiskey from the
senior software engineer from the apple
script group thank you Godfrey thank you
all for coming good morning my name is
John Comiskey i'm going to engineer in
the applescript group and i want to talk
to you today about GUI scripting first a
little bit about where GUI scripting
came from section 508 the federal law
that mandates accessibility features for
hardware and software purchased by the
federal government and if you're
interested in that kind of thing you can
look at the US government site about the
law itself Apple responded to this being
good citizens by creating an
accessibility API it's in Jaguar right
now you cannot look at the header files
which is how I learned about it you can
also go to the documentation on the
developer website and learn about it
that way if you search for accessibility
you'll get some hit on documentation for
carbon and for Coco and for how it
should appear to your users if you're
working in the accessibility space if
you're building hardware or software to
make the
computer more usable by people with
disabilities when when applescript saw
this we realized that this doesn't just
have to be an API it could be available
through scripting as well so we created
GUI scripting it's a sweet inside the
system events program if you target your
event system events they'll be handled
there and if you want to look at the
dictionary you can open up the
dictionary for system events and look in
the process is sweet because GUI
scripting has been implemented as an
extension to the processes sweet and
there's some interesting examples on the
applescript website and you can see the
URL for that there so what is GUI
scripting it's an object model of the
current state of the UI at this
particular instant instant you can
access the things that you can see on
the screen through a containment
hierarchy of objects every process on
the machine is now also a UI element in
addition to being a UI element each
process is a container for other UI
elements every process contains one or
more UI elements usually in one menu bar
and one or more windows and then
containment for UI elements is recursive
inside the windows there's buttons
sliders all sorts of things and you can
get all of these by walking down the
tree to the object that you're
interested in every UI element has a set
of attributes buttons have titles
various UI elements might be enabled or
disabled you can get at these you can
get at these attributes as a collection
as elements of the object as elements of
the UI element itself certain ones that
are particularly useful we've called
them out and given them property names
so as you can get in them directly one
less step in your hierarchy to get at
those on each UI element also contains a
collection of action those are the
things that that UI element can do sew
buttons can be pressed sliders can be
slid
and an individual UI element will tell
you these are the actions that I think I
can do and if you want to do if you want
to do one of those things there's a
perform verb and you apply to perform
verb to the action object and the action
applies itself to the two its container
which is a UI on it so what can you do
with GUI scripting you can access the
attributes and actions of all the
standard controls on your screen so you
can find out how big a button is where
it is on the screen whether a menu item
is enabled or disabled you can get at
all of that information and you can use
this information to test the user
interface of your program whether you're
whether your application is scriptable
or not you don't need other kinds of
scripting to do this and this allows you
to control the behavior of otherwise
unscripted applications whoever would do
that what it can't do Glee scripting
can't get at any non standard controls
if your application has a lot of GUI
widgets on the screen that you designed
and built yourself we probably won't
know anything about them and we won't be
able to get at them they'll just be dead
spots on the screen that we can't touch
the accessibility API does have some
features that allow you to take your non
standard controls and make them behave
enough like standard controls that the
accessibility API can see them and work
with them I would strongly suggest you
do that if you depend heavily on custom
controls and not just for GUI scripting
but for accessibility we bought into
accessibility you guys should too and
the way you do that is to take your
custom controls and make them behave in
a little less custom fashion for
accessibility purposes another thing
that you can't do with with GUI
scripting is you cannot directly test
the object model of your application
everything comes in through the user
interface you're actually clicking
buttons and sliding sliders so there'll
be parts of your code that don't get
touched coming in this way it's also
true that there'll be parts of your code
that do get touch coming in this way
that don't normally through object model
scripting object model scripting usually
come
letely bypasses the view and the
controller layer and go straight to the
model objects if you use GUI scripting
you'll invoke both of you and the
controller before reaching the model
objects so it gives you more testing in
some parts your program less testing in
others and last thing most important
left is the reason I'm here is to tell
you that this does not replace real
object model script ability in your
application this is not your ticket to
blow off scripting this is this is at
best a stopgap and we'll get to some of
the reasons away so how I use it first
thing you have to do is you have to turn
on the accessibility API which is off by
default in Panther and it is not
scriptable to turn it on so somebody is
going to have to turn on the
accessibility API by hand um before they
can use this next thing you've got to do
is identify which UI element it is you
want to act on and this can be used or
it can be hard depending upon how
complex the screen is and how deep the
hierarchy goes then you want to identify
what action it is you want to perform on
that UI element and then lastly
performing action on the element so if
you need to enable the accessibility API
you should launch the system preferences
select the universal access pain and
down at the bottom second check box from
the bottom is enable access for
assistive devices that's the one you
need to turn on or none of this is going
to work to find the UI element that you
want to work on their three choices of
how to do that you can write an
applescript that digs its way through
the hierarchy layer by layer until you
find what it is you're looking for this
can be hard because there's things on
the screen that you can't see group
might exist and the thing you're going
after is inside the group unless you
probe what's inside each group it's
going to be hard for you to find it
there's a couple of tools that make this
a little easier one comes from Apple
called the UI element inspector and you
can download that from the applescript
GUI site there's another one from the
folks at prefab
called you I browser and they're both
very good at finding things the one
thing that you I browser can do the UI
on an inspector can't is it can actually
spit out some apple script code for you
so you don't have to write it yourself
then you want to identify what action it
is you're going to perform that's one
step down in the hierarchy so if you've
written a script to find the element
that you're interested in then you just
ask that element tell me what your what
your supported actions are in the UI
element inspector and you I browser if
you're pointing at that UI element the
actions will be listed right there for
you and again the UI browser can just
spit out the code you need to perform
one of those actions then you want to
apply the action and you do that by
applying the perform verb to the action
object and that you do that the same way
whether you were using scripts or the UI
element inspector to find it and again
you I browser does it for you the it's a
the accessibility API and GUI scripting
support keystrokes it's always better to
set the value of a text object rather
than to send it keystrokes you're going
to get the results you're looking for
with less hassle that way but there's
some times when you have to send
keystrokes particularly if you're typing
into a field that's actually a
non-standard control you can still get
data into it by sending keystrokes
keystrokes are always directed to the
object that has the focus and if you
want to change the focus an applescript
activate set frontmost quick and select
are all things that can change the focus
for you and you'll have to experiment to
see what you need in your situation to
get to focus where it needs to be the
keystroke verb takes Mac Roman
characters and turns them back into
virtual key codes this works pretty well
for the English language it does not
work pretty well for other languages
where we know that the problem we're
working on it on the accessibility API
group has the same problem that I have
and we're trying to figure out a more
robust way of handling this but for what
you've got now works well in english not
so well in other languages to get around
that to give you an escape hatch we also
have a key
adverb where you can send your own raw
virtual key codes finding out which one
to send is hard but once you find out
which one it is you can send it and now
I'm going to show you how to do this
I've got some samples that I've written
up
since UI elements is off by default it's
a good idea to test to see if it's on
first the number one source of calls and
emails about this when the people that
have been working with it so far is that
it's been off when they tried to use it
so i put a test for that in each of
these scripts and if it's not on I take
that there is enough script ability and
in a system preferences to take you
right to the point where you want to
turn it on and so we're going to do that
and this is going to ask me for a
password and that was it so now since
we've checked enable access for
assistive devices the accessibility API
is on and gooey scripting will be able
to do its bit ok hide your phone
there
okay now um sometimes right we're going
to lab and the other people are working
to lab like to take the doc and stick it
someplace else I like it on the bottom
there's a menu item that will move it
for me but on that thing itself is not
scriptable but we can get at it with GUI
scripting you notice that I click the
menu then I click the menu item within
that and then I click a hierarchal menu
item within that gooey scripting is very
deliberative you have to you frequently
have to traverse the path to something
before you can use it the Edit menu is
particularly sticky in this fashion
because most of the things in the Edit
menu are disabled until a selection is
made so you frequently have to step
through all the intervening steps to get
to your your item if it's in the menu
bar and it moved the doc we did this in
the first place because we had a
customer that had a dialogue that was
blocking a workflow and he just needed
to dismiss that dialogue so one of the
things that you're likely to want to do
pretty soon at the beginning is dismiss
a dialogue and again we make our same we
make our st. check at the beginning to
make sure everything is on and because
of because of the way that text edit
works I have to expend a keystroke in
order to get the document to be dirty
and so what I'm going to do is create a
text edit document put some text in it
try to quit the application and it will
come up and say I have stuff to save and
then we'll use glue a scripting to
dismiss that dialogue
and I got an error that's script editor
because I don't have text editor awning
already know
you ski while I go out to the finder and
get my applications and launch text edit
okay this might work a little bit better
this time there put some text in there
send a keystroke its Sun okay I'm sorry
I went too fast textedit did close and
quit without you guys getting to see the
dialogue I'm sorry about that might try
that again but we'll go on to the third
one instead and here's a scripted that
I've written that set the preference in
this particular instance the sound and
it just toggles the sound between two
different values but it shows how a
slider can be manipulated it shows a
preference that's not otherwise
scriptable can be accessed
no yes okay I don't hear a beep is that
the sound from the demo machine isn't on
that true okay okay all right now we
should hear it change and be louder and
now it changes again and it's softer
okay thanks just just for fun just for
fun let's see if we can get to TextEdit
to work the way we thought it would
click the script editor relaunch the
script will try this one more time just
to see if we can get it to work nope
sorry it happens too quick and I seem to
have an error as well but that saw
that's GUI scripting you can use it to
test your application we expect that
this is not going to be a good end user
solution testers that work for you and
you pay them to run the same test over
and over again and change the tests
every time you change the code they'll
put up with this but end users are not
going to take this as a solution for
their problems so we'd like to encourage
you to learn about going scripting use
it for your own purposes internally as a
test tool but for your end users you
should provide them with object model
scripting and now we can go back to the
slides I'd like to introduce Doug
Simon's from eggplant software or from
red stone software who's going to talk
to you about eggplant much more
professional tool for testing your
application
[Applause]
hi it's good to see you all here a lot
of people I'm Doug Simon with redstone
software and we're going to tell you
about eggplant which as you've heard is
our software test automation tool so
begin with why would you test I'm sure
that all of you have a lot of reasons or
you wouldn't all be here at this session
but here's a few ideas that I had the
mac OS environment is about quality
software mac OS users expect a good
experience with your software if you
deliver you know crummy software that
doesn't work well you're not going to
have a good experience in the the market
clearly also there are some advantages
to you if you're a software works well
you're going to have less for
support calls and your support personnel
can spend time answering questions about
your programs functionality rather than
fighting fires with bugs so the bottom
line i think this equation speaks for
itself better software means happier
customers and if your customers are
happy then chances are you're happy too
so why don't people test well of course
we all do test and developers when we
add new feature to a product we're going
to try it out and make sure that it
works a lot of development environment
or ganization have a big emphasis on
unit and functional tests at a lower
level but testing is a complex process
if you've added a new feature to an
application chances are it works well on
its own but maybe it's going to have
some difficulty interacting with other
features of your application that have
been there already so those kinds of
interactions both within your program
and with other programs are important to
test as well so you might want to go
hire some people to do this testing for
you and that's great but of course it's
a costly thing to hire people and
uh the process of testing is there's not
the most fun always it's a kind of a
repetitive and mind-numbing task often
and you might rather have those
intelligent people doing something more
interesting so you might want to invest
in some test automation software to free
up some of your testers time make them
more productive unfortunately a lot of
the software solutions that are out
there have been traditionally hard to
learn and use there's a deep learning
curve involved and so it can be
difficult to get going and really make
use of this let's look at a few
different testing approaches first of
all obviously is manual testing almost
everyone does a certain amount of manual
testing and this is good but it can be
very labor-intensive and besides that
people have a tendency to be a little
inconsistent if you even if you've
written up test scripts that your
testers are following to you know step
your software through various processes
different testers are likely to follow
those instructions in slightly different
ways and if you don't have instructions
then who knows what sort of results
you'll get from one test run to the next
so one obvious solution is to automate
that process and in the past sometimes
that's been done through hardware based
solutions Apple computer at one time had
a hardware testing product and our own
parent company gresham had a hardware
based testing solution also and the
hardware test testing works great when
it works and the problem is that it can
be very inflexible and platform specific
if the system being tested changes in
some way or the young you're working
with different hardware that you're
connecting to it can be rather fragile
sometimes and prone to problems so
obviously a more flexible solution would
be to
to use software and software solutions
can be great but as I mentioned before
they're often hard to learn and also
require integration most often into the
software that's being tested so that's
an additional barrier to implementing
and using those we found in talking to
people that quite often the expensive
software solutions the companies
invested in ended up collecting dust in
the corner as shelfwear so as I said
that our parent company one time had a
hardware testing products and about a
year and a half ago we started looking
at what other alternatives might exist
we abandoned the hardware product which
was pc based and investigated what was
going to take two to come up with a
better solution so i'd like to share
with you some of the design principles
and goals that went into creating
eggplant first of all we wanted it to be
easy to learn and easy to use because we
really didn't want to create another
piece of shelf where we wanted people to
use our software and get some benefit
from it we also would like it to be
powerful and elegant well those are
great marketing buzz words but what we
mean is that we wanted to focus on the
essential functionality that testers
needed and we also wanted to be flexible
so there could be integrated into an
overall testing environment we also
wanted to create eggplant to be
independent we wanted to to minimize the
amount of integration required in fact
no integration required with your
software so that you don't have to know
ahead of time what you're going to be
using to test with and we can test with
any software that's out there we also
thought it was important to be non
intrusive to have a minimal impact on
the performance and behavior of the
system where your software is running
cross-platform is another important goal
because software exists in a
multi-platform world even if you're
creating software for mac OS can only
chances are that your your program these
days is going to be working with files
from other systems importing or
exporting and you need to be able to
have some way to to work with a
cross-platform testing environment and
finally we felt it was very important to
test from the user perspective as we
said there are a lot of functional and
low-level unit type tests available but
the bottom line is you want to create
software that is going to satisfy your
users if you have a wonderful computing
engine that does wonderful calculations
but the the user interface is is crummy
or simply doesn't work your users are
not going to get any value out of that
so how does eggplant work well first of
all we provide remote control of another
computer how many of you have heard of
or used a product called VNC and that's
quite a few so VNC is an open source
project that's been out there for a
number of years that allows one computer
to remotely control another it does this
by displaying the the screen of the
other computer and allowing you to
control the keyboard and the mouse so
eggplant leverages this technology we've
built a VNC client into eggplant that
allows us to talk to any VNC server out
there and as an open source project VNC
is available for essentially any
platform that you wish to test so we're
able to connect not only to Mac OS 10
but Mac OS 9 unix linux solaris and any
flavor of Windows then we added in
scripting we have a powerful scripting
language that allows you to automate any
task on any of those systems so the
bottom line is that eggplant can drive
any software on any system through the
user interface just like a user would
so I'd like to invite my colleague
Jonathan Gillespie up now to give you a
quick demo of how a gland works so there
thanks Doug so for our first
demonstration what I'd really like to
show you guys is exactly how it plant
works so so that you can see an example
of how you'd use it to test your own
applications so as Doug mentioned
eggplant works by connecting to a remote
computer so I'm going to be connecting
to the demo machine over here just like
so and I have an IP
right
I'm going to go ahead and make this
display a little smaller so we can so we
can go ahead and see it easily over on
this machine
ok
so there we go that's our that's our
remote machine that we're going to test
now to show you how to go about testing
one of your applications we need an
application to test so we've gone ahead
and created a really simple application
this application is so simple we decided
to name it very simple so although very
simple very simple I want to go ahead
and show you what it does do so when you
double-click and launch this application
it brings up a login panel and you go
ahead and type in your login name in
this case it's spread with the password
of Wilma and then very simple goes ahead
and brings up a list of some pictures
some interesting pictures so we'll go
ahead and select a picture from the list
and click the preview button and as soon
as it does that it it launches that
image up in the preview application and
that's about all that very simple does
it's just a real simple application to
show you something we might want to test
so I'm going to go ahead and quit out a
preview and quit out of very simple so
now that you know what very simple that
is I want to go ahead and build a test
to test that make test to make sure that
our application works correctly I do
that by creating an eggplant test suite
a test suite is simply a collection of
all of the resources that you need to
test an application you can have
multiple scripts within a sweet so we'll
go ahead and create the first one of
those now just like that
come on okay right from this point we
could actually just start scripting
right here in our script window using
eggplant scripting language sense talk
but instead I'd like to use eggplants
script generation capabilities to show
you just how easy that can be so we go
into what we call capture mode you'll
notice that in capture mode we're no
longer interacting with the remote
computer directly but instead we have a
selection rectangle here which we can
use to identify elements of the remote
screen that we want to deal with so in
this case we're going to highlight in on
the very simple icon and tell eggplant
that we'd like to double click on it by
choosing double clicks from the toolbar
sorry eggplant brings up a save dialog
and we give it a name for our image and
click and click Save when we click Save
three things happen the first is
eggplant saves that image in our very
simple or in our very simple test suite
the second thing it does is it actually
generates that command into our script
double-click on the very simple icon and
the third thing that it does is actually
execute that command against the remote
machine when it does that eggplant goes
and searches through the remote screen
until it finds the very simple icon and
double clicks on it and you can see here
it's gone ahead and launched a very
simple application the next thing we
want to do in our script of course is
click in the name field so we can enter
our username and password we identify
that field by the name label but of
course we don't want to click directly
on the name we want to click to the
right of it we do that by setting
eggplants in the images hotspot you can
set the hot spot anywhere on or relative
to the to the actual image so we'll set
it right there in the field and take
click again eggplant saves the image
rights that into the script and you can
see now that the name field is selected
now we'll go ahead and type the username
in we have a type text command so we can
type in Fred and you can also spent ten
special characters like the tab key to
go to the password field and then we'll
type in the password now we'll go ahead
and click on the submit button just to
log in and up comes our list of pictures
we're going to go ahead and just pick an
item from the list we'll go ahead and
pick the chess item again and click on
that and finally we'll go click on the
preview button you'll notice these aqua
pulsing buttons like preview in the
submit button are pulsing on the screen
since eggplant works by finding images
on the remote screen we we have a
special color matching mode that allows
us to locate those images there we go
it's message the preview application and
brought up our image we want to go ahead
and make sure that that image actually
came up on screen because that's what
eggplants all about is validating the
results of your application so we'll go
ahead and use the wait for command to do
that the wait for command will wait up
to the maximum period of time for and
for the image to come up on the screen
in this case that'll be eight seconds as
soon as it plant sees that image up on
the screen we know we've successfully
completed the test so we want to go
ahead and quit out of preview and quit
at it very simple I'm going to use the
type command feature to send a command
queue to preview and that quits out and
then I want to quit out a very simple
and let's go ahead and do that through
the menus
there we go so as you can see we've now
created our very first demonstration
script that tests are very simple
application we have all our script
commands here we have all the images
that eggplant uses right over here so we
can go ahead and run the script and
watch eggplant step through login
highlight that see the image and quit
out I think anytime eggplant runs a
script it records the results over in
the results tab in our suite so we can
click on the most recent run of that
script and you can see here that
eggplant has stored not only every
action that it performed but it also
identifies where on the screen at found
that image and it also identifies at
what time it occurred at this point some
of you are probably wondering exactly
what it looks like if a script fails so
we can cause a failure by going in and
getting rid of the password so we can't
login and we'll go ahead and run that oh
sorry eggplant fails here because it
can't continue forward through the rest
of the script so you can see over here
in our results in our results tab that
the last run isn't highlighted in red
and if we select that we see that
eggplant automatically has taken a full
screen shot of what the screen was like
at that point and it's highlighted the
image that it was looking for by using
this you can quickly see that we weren't
able to find the chess item because the
authentication failed so that's a pretty
basic look at the easy features of
eggplant so I'm going to pass it back to
Doug
thanks Jonathan so now you've seen
something about how eggplant work just
take a quick look at some of the
technologies that are behind this and
the benefits that those give to you
first of all we have a powerful
scripting language called sense talk
penstock is a very easy to learn
understandable language it's actually
modeled after hyper talk the language in
hypercard which probably a lot of you
have seen before we also have added a
number of extensions and set stock is a
very full-featured object-oriented
language so it gives you the power that
you need to do whatever it is that you
need to get done there we also use VNC
as we mentioned before which stands for
virtual network computing and VNC as i
said is an open protocol an open source
project that allows us to see the other
the screen of the other computer and
control the keyboard in the mouth this
gives us separation from the application
and system that's under test as you saw
in the demo we were testing not just a
very simple application but actually the
interaction between very simple and the
preview application from our point of
view there's really no difference all we
know is that there's a screen out there
and we can interact with it this gives
us a lot of flexibility and we not only
test interactions among different
software on the same system but even
across a system from one computer to
another and finally of course this
separation allows us to control the
system just like a user would we also
use cocoa I'm sure a lot of you are
using cocoa and we think this gives us
some advantages obviously it gives us a
clean intuitive aqua interface but also
more importantly allows us to be
responsive to our customers needs we use
the XP extreme programming approach and
we find it's very important to to be
able to be responsive to the requests of
our customers let's take a look at dock
at eggplant as a tool we see eggplant as
just one component of your overall
development process we know that there
are a lot of other tools out there that
you
use and that you need to be able to
integrate with so eggplant is able to
interact with other tools that can be
integrated into your build process of
eggplant script can be called from the
command line or an entire suite actually
of script as you'll see you shortly and
we also are able to integrate with any
reporting tools you might have all of
the files in an eggplant sweet our
standard files are the images we capture
or save as tiff images and all of our
report logs that we generate are in
plain text files that you can load into
a spreadsheet or access with another
reporting tool that you might have we're
also able to interact with UNIX command
line tools as I said we can be called
from the command line and we can also
call other command line tools and the
same with applescript now here's an
interesting point I don't know if any of
you how many of you are aware of the
Apple compatibility labs if any of you
have used those not too many hands going
up Apple has this great facility they've
got a number of different computers
dozens really of all different makes and
models of well all Macintoshes and and
running various versions of the mac OS
and these are available to developers if
you go into their labs in cupertino you
can bring your software en and test it
out to make sure that it works on all
the different platforms unfortunately it
requires a trip to Cupertino to do that
up until now we've been working closely
with Apple to ensure that it's possible
for eggplant users to access the labs
remotely from the convenience of your
own office and
[Applause]
[Music]
and we thought you might appreciate that
so anyway I'd like to bring Johnson back
up for another demo of some of eggplants
more advanced features thanks conduct
okay so on our previous example we saw
some of the basic features of eggplant
but now I'd like to take this
opportunity to show you some of the more
advanced features so I've gone ahead and
built off of the demo that I that I did
just a moment ago and created another
test suite which I call not so very
simple you'll see that not so very
simple actually has two scripts now
let's go ahead and look at the login
script I've actually gone ahead and just
broken out the functionality that deals
with having the user login as you can
see in here you can pass parameters can
you guys see that okay as you can see
you can pass in parameters in this case
we pass in the name and the password
into this script and go through the
process of validating the user so let's
go ahead and look at our main controller
script which is view images you can see
we've added quite a few little
extensions in here the first example is
we've created a couple of lists here
that we can use to iterate over all of
the various logins that we want to
validate and that's what this repeat
loop here is for it goes through the
basic test we've already implemented but
now we want to try it with a whole
variety of cases here's the login line
you can see where we're passing the
parameters to the other to the login
script I just showed you and then we go
forwards through the rest of the script
you might also notice that that is
within a try-catch loop whenever
eggplant has detects an error has a
problem it raises a typical exception
which many of you may be familiar with
and you have a choice you can either
choose to let that exception raise up to
the top and eggplant
report that as an error or you can catch
it and try to resolve resolve that here
in the in the first example I gave we
had a problem when we tried to login and
the password was invalid what I've done
up what I've done here is set a catch
which will catch and see if if the error
was because there was the no password
panel came up and if so we go ahead and
dismiss the password panel and continue
iterating through the list and continue
iterating through the list we go ahead
and log that that passwords that
passwords not valid but will gracefully
continue so that we try all of the
example so let's go ahead and bring up
our connection again and try running our
more sophisticated script so here you
can see it doing the same thing I have
animation turned on so you can see as
it's calling the loops
well there you see an example of where
eggplant doesn't work let me go ahead
and quit out and run that again
they're go this time I decided to try
something new that may be all hadn't
seen so I brought up a picture of a g5
because I thought that'd be fun and
actually I think it blew through it
while I was talking but you might have
noticed I'll run it again real quickly
it actually brought up in the on the
second log in there that's actually an
invalid login right coming up here oh
well apparently that is a valid Logan
okay one final feature that I'd like to
show you guys and Doug alluded it short
alluded to it a second ago we have a
nice little schedules tab in our suite
the schedules tab is useful for building
up a batch of scripts that you'd like to
run so you can drag some scripts in
there just like that the schedules tab
has some nice features you can you can
make scripts dependent on the successful
completion of a previous script you can
enable and disable which scripts you'd
like to see running at a at a current
point in time you can set up a repeat
loop so that you can repeat that over
that batch a number of times another
neat feature that are that the schedule
tab has here is we can actually choose
which computer we'd like to connect to
to run that so I've so i'm going to pick
these two computers and we'll start
running new computers are actually
located downstairs in one of the lounges
it's actually the ADC compatibility
lounge that they've brought to this
facility but they could just as easily
be any computer computers anywhere on
the internet that we're accessible so
you can see it running through there
that that logins not valid and it cleans
it up so I'd like to point out that
although what we're doing here is
testing the same script on two different
machines you could just as easily switch
your connection in the middle of a
single script and in this way you could
test scripting you could test something
that runs it moulds at multiple points
on different machines and hopefully this
has given you a good example of how you
might be able to use eggplant to help
test your application alright thanks
again Jonathan so I have just a couple
more slides here we as you saw eggplant
is very useful for testing your software
but because we are automating process on
a remote system it doesn't have to
necessarily just be used for testing
software it could be used for some other
things as well and here's a few ideas
that we thought of and that some of our
customers are playing around it one is
documentation we know that you all like
to document your software but of course
chances are you've got a lot of screen
shots than in your documentation and as
your software evolves you're going to
need to replace those screenshots with
up-to-date images using eggplant you
could create a script to walk through
your application and at the appropriate
point where you want to capture a
screenshot you can tell eggplant to do
that we can capture the full screen or
any region of the screen that you want
to capture we think that could also be
useful in training particularly we're
working on a feature right now that will
should be out in the next version of
eggplant to allow you to create a
QuickTime movie of any part of your
script as it's walking through this
could be great for creating a
demonstration movie of your software or
variety of other purposes and last of
all first a system and administration is
kind of a natural if you've got an
eggplant machine that can connect to any
number of different systems across your
network could be very useful for
scripting and automating any tasks on
those machines so finally I thought that
John Comiskey was and I have a slide in
there at the end with a quote from Matt
Newberg I guess that came out I'm his
final presentation there but we thought
gee maybe we should put in a quote form
at newburgh too so here you go here's
some some good advice from Matt Newberg
who saw eggplant here
macworld in January and was rather
enamored with what he saw so now I'd
like to invite Godfrey back up to do the
wrap up thank you very much so in
summary what have we got you know
testing testing is very important we
know it's very important to all of you
this is just you know the beginnings of
Mac os10 automated testing the redstone
product is excellent is in use by quite
a large number of our developers already
applescript gooey Apple steps GUI
scripting capability gives you a certain
level of functional testing and it's
limited in scope we understand that we
know we need to do more there but i'm
sure that lots of people can create
point tests for functional testing using
it and logging out put logging errors
and all kinds of other things eggplant
user centric scriptable cross-platform
broad scope of capabilities we've only
shown a little bit of it here they have
and they have lots more things in store
for it we're to learn more the Apple
script GUI scripting is the UI element
inspector these are the URLs to get to
these components GUI browser and of
course just go to the developer site and
search for accessibility you'll get
reference to a lot of documentation
eggplant by redstone software's this is
their company address and contact
information they have eggplant CDs
available here at WWDC that we're giving
them out of their booth during the
course of the of the conference
downstairs if anybody has not received
one please meet meet with the the
gentleman from redstone they'll be here
after the session and out in the halls
and they'll be able to get some more for
you and also the access to our ad C test
labs if you have interests in more
automated testing I really in requests
that you come contact me my email
address is right there we're looking for
your input what sets your needs what
would you like to see we're looking for
where we can improve in this direction
and of course excuse me of course red
stone software and Jim Armstrong will be
up in our Q&A panel tease their sales
engineer and can answer a lot of your
questions about access and finding
information about their products and
we're very close to the end of the show
but we thought we'd give you a couple of
things to go to both at the same time
this afternoon unfortunately but number
one how to write a modern carbon app
take advantage of the latest techniques
and concepts from echo as ten carbon
applications and a feedback forum for
the Apple Developer connection and give
us feedback about the conference about
all the services we provide through the
year
you